What
did Coach Chandler say about your project, your
proposal, your final product? Oh, he loved it. I
mean, the best compliment he paid me was when I was
taking my son down to get enrolled in school, and I
said, let's go over and see Coach. He's out there
watching him work out. He's there every day. I call
and make sure he's over there watching him work
out. And actually, my son was in school. And they
were practicing for baseball. And this was, I'm
trying to get my time straight. It was the spring.
We went down for spring visitation. My son was a
senior in high school. We took him down to see the
campus. And I called Tom. He said, well, I'm going
to be over at the baseball field watching them work
out. Come on over there. So we went over there. It's
amazing what they do to work out today. But Tom's
down there, and we go down there sitting next to
him, and he talks to Tony a little bit, my son. He
says, you know what? He says, we wouldn't be
sitting here if it weren't for your dad. He says,
he's the one that inspired this thing right here.
He said, oh, he did a model. that oh all the lights
came on, and we didn't have lights, we didn't have
anything when we played baseball. There was no
such thing as playing at night. He said, oh it was
just, you know how Tom used to talk, oh it was the
most wonderful thing. And he said, oh, when Mr.
Olson came in and he put up so much money, we
couldn't take it. We couldn't resist it. So, you
know, he says, your dad was an inspiration for
this. And I thank him so much. I see him. Every time I
see him, I thank him for this wonderful feat. So
that was the best compliment. And my son's eyes lit
up, you know, because I kept telling him, you know,
my dad's full of bull. He didn't, you know, he did a
Mickey Mouse little thing. He said, I know my dad.
He didn't do this. And it was. it was good for him to
hear that because it was something that he
remembered and he'll remember forever. Alright,
looking back now more than 20 years, if you were
designing that stadium again, is there any change
you would make? No, I think they were at the crux. I
mean they took my idea and moved it to where
stadiums are now. If you notice that the stadium is
real tight. You're right on top of the game. You're
enjoying, you know, you can hear everything the
coaches say. And I think they took what I had in mind
to what Tom wants. Tom says, I want to hear somebody
in the stands say, Chandler don't know what he's
talking about. Tom would say that kind of stuff. He
says, I want to hear what they're saying because,
you know, there's some pretty smart people up
there. He says, and I want them to hear me when I yell
at the umpire. I want them to hear every word I say.
So he really wanted that feel of the fans being part
of the game. And I think that's what that field
turned out to be. Did you use anybody else's
stadium as kind of a model? Well, we looked at a lot
of pictures, a lot of schematics, and most of them,
if you look at Dodger Stadium with their foil and
everything, we took an adaptation of that and
several other things to create that overhang and
give the field some noise. And we really needed to
create some noise, and Aggies are known for their
noise, so you had to create that in that stadium,
which is what we were trying to do. Are there any,
have you been contacted by anybody else that was
planning a stadium? No, I never did. I mean, it
never got out. It was something I did just for time.
I never put it out. Oh, that's, you've really,
that's a special, special addition. Okay, your
junior, senior years, and you get your degree in?
December. December. And that's December of 73.
When did you buy that ring?
Well, the former students helped me. I got it my
junior year, at the end of my junior year. You
remember how much it cost? $56 or something like
that. And was it your money? Yes, it was. How did you
feel when you first put it on? Well, you know, my
brother's is worse than mine, but you never like to
take it off. You always want to just keep it there.
Do you have any good Aggie ring stories?
Everywhere I go, somebody sees me, or I see them.
So, you know, it's one of those things you can
always – come up to Nagy and talk to him. Have you
been somewhere on the other side of the world or?
No, we haven't traveled that much. He's got me a
first class ticket every once in a while when a
pilot's in Nagy and sees these rings and says we
need to get him up here and give him some better
seats.
Let's see, so you didn't buy senior boots but how
did you feel when you put that ring on for the first
time? Very proud. My brother had one. See, my
brother had his and he had, you know, just, you
know, he'd never taken off and a pro baseball
player running all around the country. He got a
lot. So, yeah, I got my ring and I was very proud and I
went home and, you know, to come from El Paso, to get
that, you know, be that close, you know, I was very
proud.
Since you weren't in the Corps, there was no final
review, but do you remember your commencement?
Yes, I do. describe it? It was the only time my
parents came to A&M when I was in college. Really?
So they came down with my grandparents. No, just my
parents. My parents came down for my graduation
and my dad was amazed and my mom was amazed. They
went back and saw all the old stuff to my brother
where they'd seen my brother and of course it all
changed. It changed significantly since he was
there. And went to commencement and I don't for the
life of me, I can't remember who spoke, but my dad
was proud because he never imagined me getting a
degree from anywhere, much less Texas A&M. We went
back to my dorm room, my future wife, my girlfriend
was there, and they're all laughing at me. I mean,
they're literally all laughing at me because I got
this degree in my hand, and none of them can believe
I earned it. They still think I slid by, but It was a,
of course there weren't that many in the fall. I
mean there were probably three or four, five
hundred is all that graduated. So it was a real
little, you know, sit at G. Raleigh White. But I
remember I had my cap and gown and I was not going to
miss it. I wasn't just going to get my degree and
leave. I wanted to be part of that. And was it
special that it was your diploma inside that too?
Absolutely. Every hand was shaken. Every hand was
shaken. Every name was called. That's right. Do
you remember any pranks, jokes, or foolishness?
You know what? There was none of that. No hat
throwing, no nothing. I mean, everybody just was
very, very, you know. One of the worries now, they
moved over to the new field house, and now more than
half of the people walk off the stage out of the
building. They don't go back to their seats. And
that's unheard of. You get used, you wait for
everybody else. Let's try to summarize all this.
What creates Aggie spirit, that loyalty? I think
the school creates it first. They have honor.
They've kept their honor. They've kept their
standards high. And when you're part of that, you
have that same honor and spirit. So when a school
keeps itself above the fray, keeps itself out of
the gutter, you're proud to be part of it. You want
to be part of it. So that creates this feeling
inside that I'm proud of this because they've been
able to do that. I don't know if it's called
conservatism or whatever, but they haven't
fallen to the same class of all the other schools in
the country, most of them. They've kept
themselves above it. And I think that's one of the
things that makes you proud. Their standards,
they get higher and higher every year. They want to
achieve more than, they don't want to be a typical
state school. They want to be above that. So I think
when the leadership of the school strives for
something greater, I think, Everybody that
follows, everybody that wants to be a part of it,
everybody that's there is going to strive for
something greater. Now as you look back, what did
you learn at Texas A&M that's been important to you
since then? I think the best, the greatest thing I
learned is where I belong in life. What they taught
me was this is where you need to be to be successful.
I think they saw that. I think they helped with
that. I think learning and meeting new people that
were totally foreign to me. I mean, East Texans to a
West Texan is a foreigner. So meeting and enjoying
those people and feeling a part, them making me
feel a part of, you know, you need to be here. You
need to, you know, this is where you should be and
everything. So that kind of thing really helps.
Who were the people that most deserve your
gratitude? Well, Tom Chandler for one. Larry
Priestmeyer.
Pat Jenkins, my two or three roommates who knew me,
didn't know me from Adam and ended up living with me
for years and putting up with me for years because I
was a slob.
I think those people, the Daces, the people around
Bryant, the families that live there, work there,
have their livelihoods there, that take kids in,
that for the most part support those kids. I think a
lot of students don't appreciate what the
families that have been there for years have had to
to go through to stay there. I'm sure if you look at
downtown Bryan, you think I get teary-eyed when I
see downtown Bryan. I want to go back down there and
just rehab it. So I think that kind of stuff is what.
If you were a consultant to the A&M leadership
today to advise them on what they should do and not
do to keep A&M headed upward, what advice would you
give them? Don't get elitist. I think it's the
common folk that keep you there. I think they've
tried. I think Ray Bowen has tried to realize that
if you've got some Aggie blood in you, you're
bringing something else to the game. I think that
kind of thinking helps. You don't want to lower
your standards to keep that, but you want to
encourage... all of the former students. It's
like our struggle here in Albuquerque when we
can't get enough of the Aggies here to support us
and be part of it until it's time for their kids to go
to A&M. And all of a sudden they're very interested
in it. And you try and tell them when they first
started, you said, look, you've got to tell your
kids now. You've got to get your kids going now. And
don't plan on just waltzing in like you and I did. I
mean, it's not going to happen. That's the most
important thing to tell even graduating
students, to say, look, you're going to have a
family in a couple of years, and when your kids
start into high school, start into whatever, you
need to prepare them then to get into A&M and then to
make this school greater and bigger and better. We
need to have the smartest kids. But we need to have
smart kids that are Aggies, that have marine blood
in them. That's kind of what I still think. If you
could make a major gift to A&M, that's somebody
hands you a million dollar check and it's to go to
A&M but you've got to control it, what would you
want that money to be used for? Corps of Cadets. But
you weren't in the Corps.
And what would you, you mean Corps scholarships?
Yep. What have we left out? That's about it. I mean,
taking my son down there is the proudest day of my
life. Seeing him get in. You mean taking him down
there to enroll? Yeah. Did you give him any advice
when you drew him up? No, it's funny. The funny
story is we went down there and of course we went to
visit in the spring. He applied early and got
accepted. And being out of state, it's hard to get
in that school. So he got in, applied at one school,
Texas A&M, got in. Took him down there and he didn't
go to fish camp. We really didn't get him to know
that he should go to fish camp. But we walk in and
going through all the rigmarole and now it comes to
housing. And of course they're pounding on you the
whole time. He was going to try and walk on the
baseball team. He was a pitcher. He had
scholarships at several other colleges, major
colleges. He could have gone to play baseball. He
did not accept them. He went to A&M. But he was
intent on walking on to that baseball team. And so
he could have gone to the honors dorm. He had enough
schooling and he had the brains to go in that dorm.
We wanted him to go into, what's the athletic dorm
now? Where the football players are? Kane. Kane.
Because they allow non-reg, I mean they have to to
keep it all NCAA. But he was thinking he was going to
be able to go into Kane. And we had talked to Tom
Chandler. We had gone and talked to Coach Baseball
Team.
Jim Lawler says, well, we can do whatever we can do.
We'll try and get you in. And of course, we're
sitting there. And the advisor, one of the guys
doing all the counseling, goes, OK, you got two
minutes.
Wherever you're going to live, you got two
minutes. If you're going to be in the Corps, you go
over there. If you're going to be a civilian, you go
over there. You got two minutes to decide. And our
son is sitting there. You know, sitting there,
sitting there, sitting there. And our wish was for
him to be in the Corps. I was never in the Corps, but I
admired him. I wanted him to be in the Corps. And I
guess it comes from my grandfather. But he looks
over at his mom and he says, I think I'm going to go to
the Corps. And she started crying. Oh, that's just
wonderful. And we didn't try to influence him. But
we went to the Corps Center. And Larry Priesmar had
done a lot of the wood carving. And I can't remember
the the gentleman who ran the court, the curator,
he just passed away, he talked to Tony for a good two
hours and told him all the good stories about the
court, all about Good Bull and everything else. So
Tony said, ah, these guys, you know, I want to play
baseball. I want to play baseball. So we said, he's
not going to go to the court. And when he turned and
said, I'm going to go to the court, we went over
there, and two days later, he's sitting in his dorm
room, fastening his fasteners, you know, after we
had the lead. The first sergeant came in, called
Rick, came in and just reamed him up now inside the
other. He's sitting inside of his closet. He says,
well, son, we're going back to Albuquerque. He
says, is there anything you want to say? He says,
yeah. He says, what's wrong? He says, what do you
think? He says, I'm thinking, what the hell am I
doing here? And we left with smiles on our face
because we knew they were going to take care of him.
And that's the way my parents felt. My parents
didn't even need to go because they knew that Texas
A&M was going to take care of our child. And I think
that's the best thing you can do. And what class was
he? He was class of 99. 99. And what's he doing now?
He works for Compaq Computer. He's a computer
engineer. Where? In Houston. In Houston. Okay.
And his wife is a summa cum laude. She's in chemical
engineering. She works for Exxon. So they've got
some pretty good degrees and a pretty good basis.
Unless you know of anything else we've omitted, my
last question is, what feelings do you carry in
your heart now for Texas A&M? Love it. You know,
when I got out of college for the first four or five
or six years, it was kind of like it didn't teach me
anything. I didn't learn a damn thing down there.
And 30 years of working, it's taught me a lot. I did
learn a lot. I learned quite a lot. And it takes you a
while when you're that young to not realize what
you really learned. I just love it. I mean, we do
everything. We started this club up here. We got,
you know, scholars. We did a lot in Albuquerque for
Texas A&M. We got some good people down there, and I
think we're going to continue to do that.